Docs: Relabel SEO guide as explanation (Diátaxis) (#10004)
readthedocs/readthedocs.org: docs/user/guides/technical-docs-seo-guide.rst

==============================================================
Search Engine Optimization (SEO) for documentation projects
===========================================================

.. meta::
    :description lang=en:
        Looking to optimize your Sphinx documentation for search engines?
        Looking to optimize your documentation project for search engines?
        This SEO guide will help your docs be better understood by both people and crawlers
        as well as help you rank higher in search engine results.

This article explains how documentation can be optimized to appear in search results,
ultimately increasing traffic to your docs.

This guide will help you optimize your documentation for search engines
with the goal of increasing traffic to your docs.
While you optimize your docs to make them more crawler friendly for search engine spiders,
While you optimize your docs to make them more friendly for search engine spiders/crawlers,
it's important to keep in mind that your ultimate goal is to make your docs
more discoverable for your users.
**You're trying to make sure that when a user types a question into a search engine

> that is answerable by your documentation, that your docs appear in the results.**

Author: Re-added :+1:

more :term:`discoverable <discoverability>` for your users.

This guide isn't meant to be your only resource on SEO,
and there's a lot of SEO topics not covered here.

> For additional reading, please see the

Author: Yup, and for a rather lengthy intro, it really helped to move this into a separate box.

it's important to keep in mind that your ultimate goal is to make your docs
more :term:`discoverable <discoverability>` for your users.

> By following :ref:`best practices for SEO <guides/technical-docs-seo-guide:Best practices for documentation SEO>`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By following :ref:`our best practices for SEO <guides/technical-docs-seo-guide:Best practices for documentation SEO>`,
```

Makes it more clear it's an internal link.

the most important thing is making sure the spider can follow links on your site
and get to all your pages.

Avoid orphan pages ✅️
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Sphinx calls pages that don't have links to them "orphans"

Reviewer: Should we use a different word? `unlinked` seems explicit, and removed the Sphinx-heavy copy.

Author: Oh wow, I have overlooked this because of the multitude of Sphinx-only sentences :)

removed :+1:

and will throw a warning while building documentation that contains an orphan
unless the warning is silenced with the :ref:`orphan directive <sphinx:metadata>`:

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Sphinx

        Sphinx will warn you when a page isn't referenced by the remaining documentation.
        We recommend failing your builds whenever Sphinx warns you,
        using the ``fail_on_warnings`` option in :ref:`.readthedocs.yaml <config-file/v2:sphinx>`.

        Here is an example of a warning of an unreferenced page::

            $ make html
            sphinx-build -b html -d _build/doctrees . _build/html
            Running Sphinx v1.8.5
            ...
            checking consistency... /path/to/file.rst: WARNING: document isn't included in any toctree
            done
            ...
            build finished with problems, 1 warning.

   .. tab:: MkDocs

>       MkDocs automatically includes all ``.md`` files in the main navigation 💯️.
>       So it does not need to report back about unreferenced files.
>       You have to go out of your way and install a plugin,
>       if you want to hide files from the navigation.
>       If you do want to scan your documentation for unreferenced files and images,
>       a plugin like `mkdocs-unused-files`_ does the job.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      MkDocs automatically includes all ``.md`` files in the main navigation 💯️.
      This makes sure that all files are discoverable by default,
      however there are configurations that allows for issues to arise.
      If you want to scan your documentation for unreferenced files and images,
      a plugin like `mkdocs-unused-files`_ does the job.
```

This was needlessly snarky. `go out of your way` is not language we generally want to use. If I'm a user landing on this page, and doing something like this, I'm going to feel judged.

Author: Thanks! The language should always be inclusive, thanks for fixing it directly :+1:

the most important thing is making sure the spider can follow links on your site
and get to all your pages.

Avoid unlinked pages ✅️
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When building your documentation,

> you should ensure that pages aren't *unlinked* or *orphaned*,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you should ensure that pages aren't *unlinked*,
```

We explain `orphan` below in the Sphinx section, no need to own it here :)

meaning that no other pages or navigation have a link to them.

> Search engine crawlers will not discover pages that aren't referenced.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Search engine crawlers will not discover pages that aren't linked from somewhere else on your site.
```

Author: This was a good example of using more words to add clarity :)

Reviewer: Agreed.

> .. TODO: Create a "generic" tab?

Reviewer: 💯

make sure the rest of that page describes the content of the video.

When using images, make sure to set the image alt text or set a caption on figures.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Sphinx

        For Sphinx, the image and figure directives support both alt texts and captions:

        .. code-block:: rst

            .. image:: your-image.png
                :alt: A description of this image

            .. figure:: your-image.png

                A caption for this figure

   .. tab:: MkDocs

>         The Markdown syntax fundamentally prescribes an alt text for images:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        The Markdown syntax defines an alt text for images:
```

`fundamentally prescribes` sounds like a PhD lecture :) This is a pretty easy one to use simple language for, so let's use it!

Author: haha, true, the contrast to the basic syntax providing the alt text is that there isn't anything for figures. Which IMO is a real negative of using MkDocs. I didn't find good solutions for figures, so I can't instruct people "here's an easy way to create and reference a figure".

Author: Thanks for writing the suggestion!

        .. code-block:: md

           ![Image alt text](https://dummyimage.com/600x400/){ width="300" }

>         If you want to use figures and captions,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Though HTML supports figures and captions,
```

        Markdown and MkDocs do not have a built-in feature.
        Instead,
        you can use markdown extensions such as `md-in-html`_ to allow the necessary HTML structures for including figures:

        .. code-block:: md

           <figure markdown>
              ![Image alt text](https://dummyimage.com/600x400/){ width="300" }
              <figcaption>Image caption</figcaption>
           </figure>

.. _md-in-html: https://python-markdown.github.io/extensions/md_in_html/

> 

Reviewer: I'm a little confused, can't markdown users just write raw HTML directly? What is this extension adding?

Author: It's adding the ability to write HTML in Markdown.. I think it would be escaped otherwise.

The reason I understand that this is probably the way that people do it: https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/reference/images/#image-captions

(here, they even use the word "Sadly")

Reviewer: Heh yea -- it seems super hacky. 🤷
